# This Project was carried out as a project for UC Berkeley MIDS Program's Statistics class

## Concrete Compressive Strength
Regression Analysis to discover the relationship of superplasticizer to the compressive strength of the concrete

The compressive strength of concrete is a key concern for engineers designing structures (National Ready Mix Concrete Association, 2014). In high rise construction, higher compressive strength concrete allows for less concrete to be used (World Cement, 2014; Tecwill, 2019). This allows for thinner columns, which increases usable space in a building (World Cement, 2014; Tecwill, 2019). Additionally, using less materials can improve the sustainability of building construction (World Cement, 2014; Tecwill, 2019) and reduce overall construction costs (Portland Cement Association, 2022; World Cement, 2014; Tecwill, 2019). For concrete manufacturers, there is a key benefit of higher compressive strength concrete - it sells for a higher price (Angi.com, 2022). Generally, higher strength concrete has a lower water-to-cement ratio (I-Cheng Yeh, 1998), and concrete manufacturers use superplasticizers to make this feasible by improving workability at low water-to-cement ratios (Portland Cement Association, 2022; World Cement, 2014; Tecwill, 2019). Concrete manufacturers may vary the proportions of superplasticizer and other ingredients during production (Portland Cement Association, 2022). Our research question is as follows:
Beyond the simple ratio of water to cement, is the quantity of superplasticizer (X Variable) related to the compressive strength of concrete (Y Variable)?
Adapted/taken from I-Cheng Yeh (1998). Informed by Portland Cement Association (2022).
Understanding the answer to this question could be valuable to concrete manufacturers seeking to achieve a certain level of compressive strength performance for their cement, which is vital for both maximizing revenue and enhancing concrete usage in different applications.1
In addition to water, cement and superplasticizers, cement manufacturers include a number of other ingredients including fly ash, silica fume and blast furnace slag (Portland Cement Association, 2022; World Cement, 2014; Tecwill, 2019). As available in our data, we may include these as additional covariates to control for their effects on the compressive strength of concrete.